Title: 2nd OPEN KNOWLEDGE OPEN ARTS WORKSHOP (OKOA16) - Call for presentation proposals

Apologies for cross-posting.

The OKOA scientific committee invites submission of abstracts for its 2016 workshop 
that this year will be focused on any aspect of open archaeology. 

WORKSHOP INFORMATION

"A world where knowledge creates power for the many, not the few. 
A world where data frees us - to make informed choices about how we live, 
what we buy and who gets our vote. 
A world where information and insights are accessible - and apparent - to everyone. 
This is the world we choose."
 
This statement, reported in the Open Knowledge Foundation web site, summarizes very well 
the thought and the aims of the Open Knowledge Movement. The Cultural Heritage Knowledge 
and his open dissemination is an important right and in fact occupies a significant 
position within the international human right discussion.

Why? Because a deep understanding of cultural heritage can provide people right instruments 
to support social, scientific, technical and cultural progress, to improve themselves and being “free”.

How do We reach this goal?
In our opinion, only believing in the 'open thinking' principle. It implies, indeed, an open
and total access to the cultural heritage and to data, studies and documents produced about it.
So, the aim of the Open Knowledge Open Arts workshop is to investigate how the open sharing 
of the data, in a readable form for all people and with no limitation reuse can help research, 
production and fruition of Cultural Heritage.
 
WHEN: 26 February 2016
WHERE: Dipartimento di Matematica e Informatica, University of Catania (Città Universitaria, polo scientifico di via S. Sofia)
CONTACT:  Cristiano Longo longo@dmi.unict.it 

 
TOPICS

For the 2016 workshop, contributions that address the following topics are welcome and not limited to:

- Open Data in Archaeology: prospective, possibilities and applications (Manifesto, platforms, portals, formats, ...);
- sharing and interaction between geographical open data and cultural heritage (for example with Web Gis);
- legal aspects about the definition of "sensitive data" applied on cultural heritage;
- creative works and intellectual property (thesis, research and publication);
- knowledge management about cultural heritage in Education: from the classroom to the public space;
- lifelong learning strategies and practices concerning cultural heritage in the digital domain;
- any other topics inherent Open Data.

Types of Proposals
 
Proposals may be of two types: (1) short presentations; (2) full presentations. Based on 
peer review and its mandate to create a balanced and varied program, the Program Committee may offer 
acceptance in a different category from the one initially proposed. Papers  may be given in English, and Italian.

1) Short presentations
Short paper proposals (500  words) are appropriate for reporting on experiments or work in progress, or for describing 
newly conceived tools or software in early stages of development. This category of presentation will have a length held to 
5 minutes each in order to allow time for questions.

2) Full presentations
Proposals for full presentations (500 words) are appropriate for: substantial, completed, and previously unpublished 
research; reports on the development of significant new methodologies or digital resources; and/or rigorous theoretical, 
speculative, or critical discussions. Individual papers will be allocated 20 minutes for presentation.

The deadline for submitting proposals for short and full presentations  to the OKOA workshop is midnight GMT, 10 December, 2015. 
Presenters will be notified of acceptance by 31 December, 2015.

A link to the online abstract submission system is available here on EASYCHAIR platform 
https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=okoa16 

PUBBLICATION
After the conference, authors will be asked to submit a paper for the pubblication according to the guidelines that will be given. 
According to OKOA16 presentations there will be space both for short papers and full papers. 

The workshop partecipation is free. Please fill the online schedule to the event in order to better organization. 

IMPORTANT DATES SUMMARY

- 10/12/2016 Deadline for submission of abstracts
- 31/12/2016 Notification of acceptance
- 31/01/2016 Deadline for on - line registration for #OKOA16 
- 26/02/2016 Conference Day

Follow #OKOA16 on
http://www.dmi.unict.it/~longo/okoa16/
https://www.facebook.com/groups/133271063687638/?fref=ts

